frontend/README.md, before:

# TTADP Frontend

A React frontend initialized with Create React App. Usage examples for `uswds-react` can be found [here](https://trussworks.github.io/react-uswds/).

## Getting Started

There are yarn commands for starting/testing/linting the frontend defined a directory up. `yarn start` or `yarn docker:start` a directory up will start both the backend and frontend. `yarn docker:test` or `yarn test:all` will test the frontend and the backend. However if you want to just run the frontend tests/linter you can run yarn commands in this directory. Install dependencies with `yarn install`. `yarn start` will fire up the development server. Use `yarn test` and `yarn lint` for running tests and the linter.

### Yarn Commands

| Yarn Command | Description |
|-|-|
| `yarn start` | Start the frontend development server |
| `yarn build:local` | Build a production bundle for local development |
| `yarn build` | Build a production bundle for deployed env|
| `yarn test` | Start the test watcher |
| `yarn test:ci` | Run unit tests a single time outputting results to xml files |
| `yarn lint` | Run the linter |
| `yarn lint:ci` | Run the linter outputting results to xml files |

## Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration

### Deployment

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment

### `yarn build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify

Commit message:

Add screen reader instructrions for continuing session
When inactive the modal that asks the user to continue their session now
includes a screen ready only instruction to reduce confusion

frontend/README.md, after:

# TTADP Frontend

A React frontend initialized with Create React App. Usage examples for `uswds-react` can be found [here](https://trussworks.github.io/react-uswds/).

## Getting Started

There are yarn commands for starting/testing/linting the frontend defined a directory up. `yarn start` or `yarn docker:start` a directory up will start both the backend and frontend. `yarn docker:test` or `yarn test:all` will test the frontend and the backend. However if you want to just run the frontend tests/linter you can run yarn commands in this directory. Install dependencies with `yarn install`. `yarn start` will fire up the development server. Use `yarn test` and `yarn lint` for running tests and the linter.

### Yarn Commands

| Yarn Command | Description |
|-|-|
| `yarn start` | Start the frontend development server |
| `yarn build:local` | Build a production bundle for local development |
| `yarn build` | Build a production bundle for deployed env|
| `yarn test` | Start the test watcher |
| `yarn test:ci` | Run unit tests a single time outputting results to xml files |
| `yarn lint` | Run the linter |
| `yarn lint:ci` | Run the linter outputting results to xml files |

## Build Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|-|-|
| `REACT_APP_INACTIVE_MODAL_TIMEOUT` | Amount of time before the "Idle Logout" modal is shown to a user, in milliseconds |
| `REACT_APP_SESSION_TIMEOUT` | Amount of time before an inactive user is automatically logged out |

## Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration

### Deployment

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment

### `yarn build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify
