README.md, before:

Office of Head Start Training & Technical Assistance Data Platform
=============================================

Welcome to the home of the OHS TTADP.

What We're Building and Why
---------------

For the latest on our product mission, goals, initiatives, and KPIs, see the [Product Planning page](https://github.com/HHS/Head-Start-TTADP/wiki/Product-Planning).


Getting Started
---------------

Make sure Docker is installed. To check run `docker ps`

Run `yarn docker:deps`. This builds the frontend and backend docker containers and install dependencies. You only need to run this step the first time you fire up the app and when dependencies are added/updated/removed. Running `yarn docker:start` starts the backend and frontend, browse to `http://localhost:3000` to hit the frontend and `http://localhost:3000/api` to hit the backend. Copying `.env.example` to `.env`, substituting in your user id and group id will cause any files created in docker containers to be owned by your user on your host.

You can also run build commands directly on your host (without docker). Make sure you install dependencies when changing execution method. You could see some odd errors if you install dependencies for docker and then run yarn commands directly on the host, especially if you are developing on windows. If you want to use the host yarn commands be sure to run `yarn deps` before any other yarn commands. Likewise if you want to use docker make sure you run `yarn docker:deps`.

The frontend [proxies requests](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/proxying-api-requests-in-development/) to paths it doesn't recognize to the backend.

Api documentation uses [Redoc](https://github.com/Redocly/redoc) to serve documentation files. These files can be found in the `docs/openapi` folder. Api documentation should be split into separate files when appropriate to prevent huge hard to grasp yaml files.

Running Tests
-------------

Run `yarn docker:deps` to install dependencies. Run `yarn docker:db:migrate` and `yarn docker:test` to run all tests for the frontend and backend.

Docker on Windows
-----------------

You may run into some issues running the docker commands on Windows:

 * If you run into `Permission Denied` errors see [this issue](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/3385#issuecomment-501931980)
 * You can try to speed up execution time on windows with solutions posted to [this issue](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/1936)

Yarn Commands
--------------
| Docker Command | Description| Host Command | Local only Command |
|-|-|-|-|
| `yarn docker:deps` | Install dependencies for the frontend and backend | `yarn deps` | `yarn deps:local` |
| `yarn docker:start` | Starts the backend and frontend | | `yarn start:local` |
| `yarn docker:stop` | Stops the backend and frontend | |
| `yarn docker:test` | Runs tests for the frontend and backend | |
| `yarn docker:lint` | Runs the linter for the frontend and backend | |
| `yarn docker:db:migrate` | Run migrations in docker containers | `yarn db:migrate` | |
| `yarn docker:db:migrate:undo` | Undo migrations in docker containers | `yarn db:migrate:undo` | |
| | Install dependencies for the frontend and backend (for local development)  | `yarn deps:local` | |
| | Starts the backend | `yarn start` |`yarn server` | |
| | Start the frontend | `yarn client` | |
| | Run tests for only the backend | `yarn test`| |
| | Run tests for the backend with coverage and output results to xml files|  `yarn test:ci`| |
| | Run `yarn test:ci` for both the frontend and backend | `yarn test:all`| |
| | Run the linter only for the backend | `yarn lint` | |
| | Run the linter for the the backend with results output to xml files | `yarn lint:ci`| |
| | Run `yarn lint:ci` for both the frontend and backend | `yarn lint:all`| |
| | Host the open api 3 spec using [redoc](https://github.com/Redocly/redoc) at `localhost:5000` | `yarn docs:serve` | |

Integration
-----------

Linting, unit tests and test coverage analysis are all run automatically on each push
to the Ad Hoc fork of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo and the HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo. In
the Ad Hoc repository, merges to the main branch are blocked if the continuous
integration (CI) tests do not pass. The continuous integration pipeline is configured via CircleCi.
The bulk of CI configurations can be found in this repo's [.circleci/config.yml](.circleci/config.yml) file.

Deployment
----------

This application consists of three deployment environments: development/dev, staging, and
production/prod. The continuous deployment (CD) pipeline is configured via CircleCi.
The bulk of CD configurations can be found in this repo's [.circleci/config.yml](.circleci/config.yml) file,
the [application manifest](manifest.yml) and the environment specific [deployment_config](deployment_config/)
variable files.

Commits to specific branches in github repositories start automatic deployments as follows:

* **Dev** deployed by commit to [main branch][adhoc-main] of Ad Hoc fork of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo
* **Staging** deployed by commit to [main branch][hhs-main] of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo
* **Prod** deployed by commit to [production branch][hhs-prod] of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo

The application is deployed to the following URLs:

| Environment | URL |
|:------------|:----|
| sandbox | https://tta-smarthub-sandbox.app.cloud.gov/ |
| dev     | https://tta-smarthub-dev.app.cloud.gov/ |
| staging | https://tta-smarthub-staging.app.cloud.gov/ |
| prod    | |

**Sandbox Environment**

An additional deployment environment called "sandbox" is available to developers for testing and
development on feature branches prior to making a commit to Ad Hoc's main branch and deploying to "dev".
The current [.circleci/config.yml](.circleci/config.yml) assumes deployments to this space are being made from
the Ad Hoc repository. Deployments are pushed to the ohstta-sandbox cloud.gov space. To conserve
resources, running application instances pushed to this space should be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed.
Running application instances can be deleted by logging into [cloud.gov][cloudgov], and then selecting and
deleting the application.

**Secret Management**

CircleCI's [project-based environment variables][env-vars] are used for secret management. These secrets include:
- Cloud.gov deployer account username and password. These keys are specific to each cloud.gov
organization/space, i.e. each deployment environment, and can be [regenerated by developers][cloudgov-deployer]
who have proper cloud.gov permissions at any time.
- HSES authentication middleware secrets passed to the application as `AUTH_CLIENT_ID` and `AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`.
- The application `SESSION_SECRET`.

<!-- Links -->

[adhoc-main]: https://github.com/adhocteam/Head-Start-TTADP/tree/main
[cloudgov]: https://dashboard.fr.cloud.gov/home
[cloudgov-deployer]: https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/
[hhs-main]: https://github.com/HHS/Head-Start-TTADP/tree/main
[hhs-prod]: https://github.com/HHS/Head-Start-TTADP/tree/production

Commit message:

CI: Add Dynamic Security Scan (#44)
* first pass

* new docker file

* fix command

* requires

* lets not use yarn

* change docker version

* remove network name

* pass env vars via compose

* corrections

* swallow WARN, consistent syntax

* configure rules

* correct path to zap.conf

* insanity

* josh has a plan

* add back config entries, add reports

* check that FAILs return nonzero exit

* try storing reports, return to reg config

* change path to report

* just checking

* return to sanity

* add documentation

* return to successful zap command

* Update README.md

Co-authored-by: Josh Salisbury <josh@adhocteam.us>

* Update docs/adr/0008-security-scans.md

* remove report.xml

* try changing username var name

* try writing report with user flag

* return

* back to postgres_user

* change ADR to accepted, POSTGRES_USER

* db var is POSTGRES_USER

Co-authored-by: Sarah-Jaine Szekeresh <sarah-jaine@adhocteam.us>
Co-authored-by: Josh Salisbury <josh@adhocteam.us>

README.md, after:

Office of Head Start Training & Technical Assistance Data Platform
=============================================

Welcome to the home of the OHS TTADP.

What We're Building and Why
---------------

For the latest on our product mission, goals, initiatives, and KPIs, see the [Product Planning page](https://github.com/HHS/Head-Start-TTADP/wiki/Product-Planning).


Getting Started
---------------

Make sure Docker is installed. To check run `docker ps`

Run `yarn docker:deps`. This builds the frontend and backend docker containers and install dependencies. You only need to run this step the first time you fire up the app and when dependencies are added/updated/removed. Running `yarn docker:start` starts the backend and frontend, browse to `http://localhost:3000` to hit the frontend and `http://localhost:3000/api` to hit the backend. Copying `.env.example` to `.env`, substituting in your user id and group id will cause any files created in docker containers to be owned by your user on your host.

You can also run build commands directly on your host (without docker). Make sure you install dependencies when changing execution method. You could see some odd errors if you install dependencies for docker and then run yarn commands directly on the host, especially if you are developing on windows. If you want to use the host yarn commands be sure to run `yarn deps` before any other yarn commands. Likewise if you want to use docker make sure you run `yarn docker:deps`.

The frontend [proxies requests](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/proxying-api-requests-in-development/) to paths it doesn't recognize to the backend.

Api documentation uses [Redoc](https://github.com/Redocly/redoc) to serve documentation files. These files can be found in the `docs/openapi` folder. Api documentation should be split into separate files when appropriate to prevent huge hard to grasp yaml files.

Running Tests
-------------

Run `yarn docker:deps` to install dependencies. Run `yarn docker:db:migrate` and `yarn docker:test` to run all tests for the frontend and backend.

Docker on Windows
-----------------

You may run into some issues running the docker commands on Windows:

 * If you run into `Permission Denied` errors see [this issue](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/3385#issuecomment-501931980)
 * You can try to speed up execution time on windows with solutions posted to [this issue](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/1936)

Yarn Commands
--------------
| Docker Command | Description| Host Command | Local only Command |
|-|-|-|-|
| `yarn docker:deps` | Install dependencies for the frontend and backend | `yarn deps` | `yarn deps:local` |
| `yarn docker:start` | Starts the backend and frontend | | `yarn start:local` |
| `yarn docker:stop` | Stops the backend and frontend | |
| `yarn docker:test` | Runs tests for the frontend and backend | |
| `yarn docker:lint` | Runs the linter for the frontend and backend | |
| `yarn docker:db:migrate` | Run migrations in docker containers | `yarn db:migrate` | |
| `yarn docker:db:migrate:undo` | Undo migrations in docker containers | `yarn db:migrate:undo` | |
| | Install dependencies for the frontend and backend (for local development)  | `yarn deps:local` | |
| | Starts the backend | `yarn start` |`yarn server` | |
| | Start the frontend | `yarn client` | |
| | Run tests for only the backend | `yarn test`| |
| | Run tests for the backend with coverage and output results to xml files|  `yarn test:ci`| |
| | Run `yarn test:ci` for both the frontend and backend | `yarn test:all`| |
| | Run the linter only for the backend | `yarn lint` | |
| | Run the linter for the the backend with results output to xml files | `yarn lint:ci`| |
| | Run `yarn lint:ci` for both the frontend and backend | `yarn lint:all`| |
| | Host the open api 3 spec using [redoc](https://github.com/Redocly/redoc) at `localhost:5000` | `yarn docs:serve` | |

Integration
-----------

Linting, unit tests and test coverage analysis are all run automatically on each push
to the Ad Hoc fork of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo and the HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo. In
the Ad Hoc repository, merges to the main branch are blocked if the continuous
integration (CI) tests do not pass. The continuous integration pipeline is configured via CircleCi.
The bulk of CI configurations can be found in this repo's [.circleci/config.yml](.circleci/config.yml) file. For more information on the security audit and scan tools used in the continuous integration pipeline see [ADR 0008](docs/adr/0008-security-scans.md).

Deployment
----------

This application consists of three deployment environments: development/dev, staging, and
production/prod. The continuous deployment (CD) pipeline is configured via CircleCi.
The bulk of CD configurations can be found in this repo's [.circleci/config.yml](.circleci/config.yml) file,
the [application manifest](manifest.yml) and the environment specific [deployment_config](deployment_config/)
variable files.

Commits to specific branches in github repositories start automatic deployments as follows:

* **Dev** deployed by commit to [main branch][adhoc-main] of Ad Hoc fork of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo
* **Staging** deployed by commit to [main branch][hhs-main] of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo
* **Prod** deployed by commit to [production branch][hhs-prod] of HHS/Head-Start-TTADP repo

The application is deployed to the following URLs:

| Environment | URL |
|:------------|:----|
| sandbox | https://tta-smarthub-sandbox.app.cloud.gov/ |
| dev     | https://tta-smarthub-dev.app.cloud.gov/ |
| staging | https://tta-smarthub-staging.app.cloud.gov/ |
| prod    | |

**Sandbox Environment**

An additional deployment environment called "sandbox" is available to developers for testing and
development on feature branches prior to making a commit to Ad Hoc's main branch and deploying to "dev".
The current [.circleci/config.yml](.circleci/config.yml) assumes deployments to this space are being made from
the Ad Hoc repository. Deployments are pushed to the ohstta-sandbox cloud.gov space. To conserve
resources, running application instances pushed to this space should be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed.
Running application instances can be deleted by logging into [cloud.gov][cloudgov], and then selecting and
deleting the application.

**Secret Management**

CircleCI's [project-based environment variables][env-vars] are used for secret management. These secrets include:
- Cloud.gov deployer account username and password. These keys are specific to each cloud.gov
organization/space, i.e. each deployment environment, and can be [regenerated by developers][cloudgov-deployer]
who have proper cloud.gov permissions at any time.
- HSES authentication middleware secrets passed to the application as `AUTH_CLIENT_ID` and `AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`.
- The application `SESSION_SECRET`.

<!-- Links -->

[adhoc-main]: https://github.com/adhocteam/Head-Start-TTADP/tree/main
[cloudgov]: https://dashboard.fr.cloud.gov/home
[cloudgov-deployer]: https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/
[hhs-main]: https://github.com/HHS/Head-Start-TTADP/tree/main
[hhs-prod]: https://github.com/HHS/Head-Start-TTADP/tree/production
