deployment_config/README.md, before:

# Deployment Configuration Variable Files

Files within this directory contain variables that are read/substituted into
the deployment manifest (manifest.yml). The deployment manifest configures
aspects of the application deployment such as the number of instances deployed
and variables that are passed to the application environment. Environment
variables that should remain secret and outside of version control are
overwritten in the manifest by a deployment command flag, `--var`, in the deploy
job (configured in .circleci/config.yml). See the treatment of `AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`,
as an example of this variable substitution. For more information on secret
management see the Secret Management section of the main README.md.

## REDIRECT_URI_HOST

Once our localhost OAuth application has it's redirect callback updated this environment
variable can be removed in favor of TTA_SMART_HUB_URI. The values of these two variables
currently match. They are both required for now to ensure the application operates
properly on local development machines.

Commit message:

CD: Fix migration, clean up and explain env variables (#92)
* add fake postgres vars to deploy config

* move to manifest

* use var substitute

* update vars and documentation

* add back jobs

* make all env vars uppercase

* whoops, missing )

* call out crazy param syntax

Co-authored-by: Sarah-Jaine Szekeresh <sarah-jaine@adhocteam.us>

deployment_config/README.md, after:

# Deployment Configuration Variable Files

Files within this directory contain variables that are both public and read/substituted into the deployment manifest (manifest.yml) based on the deployment environment. For an example, see the treatment of `instances` in dev_vars.yml, prod_vars.yml, and manifest.yml.

**Need to add a public env variable to the application that _does not change_ between envs?** You can add it directly under `env:` in manifest.yml. See `NODE_ENV` as an example.

**Need to add a secrete env variable to the application or a public or secret env variable that _changes_ between envs?** Check out the "Adding environment variables to an application" section in the main README.MD.

## REDIRECT_URI_HOST

Once our localhost OAuth application has it's redirect callback updated this environment
variable can be removed in favor of TTA_SMART_HUB_URI. The values of these two variables
currently match. They are both required for now to ensure the application operates
properly on local development machines.
